---
layout: post
title: Changing to Jekyll
category: networked_media
day: march 27th
city: New York City
number: 33
year: 2017
comments: true

#Cities
#	New York City
#	Barcelona

#categories:
#	applications
#	physical_computing 
#	computationa_media 
#	sound_&_video 
#	alt_docs
#	towers_of_power 
#	analog_circuits 
#	nature_of_code
#	networked_media
#	piecing_it_together
#	bluetooth_LE

---

This post is about re-doing my personal [website][a1] and [blog][a2]. I got fed up of changing and "re-writing" 3 new html pages for every new post I wanted to make. Which eventually ended in me not really looking forward to writing a blogpost, and therefore not really documenting my work that well. Which was a big mistake. So once I discovered [jekyll][a3] and the way it works I decided to adapt both of them to this ruby engine.

At the same time I was trying to have everything in my VPS and deploying through [Capistrano][a4], which avoids having to do all the ftp procedures for any updates. But I ended up deciding on using [GitHub Pages][a5], as it is very easy to set up and even easier to update.

Ok. So you know why I wanted to change; basicly an inneficient workflow to post anything on my blog or website, and a pain in the a$$ to format the text. But why *Jekyll?*, why not [Wordpress](https://wordpress.com) *(ew)*, or any other system that domain providers offer. The reason basically is "freedom", to have the exact design I want but with the same advantages that others offer.

### With Jekyll I could: 
* have the exact same web design as before.
* prepare posts and revise them without having to use logins and being online.
* use GitHub Pages, which is free.
* have absolute control over every single aspect of my website.
* very easy to make major changes to the whole website, without having to go through the pain that was *search & replace*.
<br>
<br>
<br>

---

*Before you keep reading:* This is a post that shows the process **I** followed and that worked for me, I work with *Mac OS* and there are chances that the intallation and set up might be different in other systems, specially *Windows*. This is written with the intention of me interiorising what I did and as a reminder of the process I followed to get there. This process works, the website you are in is *"living"* proof of it. 

That said take into consideration that troubleshooting is an intrisic part of the process and don't expect to have absolutely everthing explained here, I am taking the liverty of assuming that if you are going to follow this guide, you are at a simillar level than the one I was before starting this process. That means that you know *html, css, Javascript*, and other programing languages at a level that is a substanciable amount above Basic. That you are at leat kind of used to *command line* and you know what it does. And that you know what a local server is.

Last thing, this is the first post of this characteristics I write, so I would appreciate any kind of feedback. Either write a comment (If I did add the comment section...)<br> or send me an <a href="mailto:grau@nyu.edu?Subject='Sup!" target="_top">email!</a>

# "Thematisation"

This is the only job I had, besides learning [Mardown][a6], whih we'll talk about later.<br> I had to transform my static *html* page into all the different parts that make a Jekyll page come to life.
<br>The bare escencials that one needs to have a jekyll set-up running. Are, first of all; Jekyll itself.

First step is fairly simple, ***install Jekyll in your machine***: go to command line, and do the following

{% highlight  command line %}
gem install jekyll bundler
{% endhighlight %}

If anything does not allow you to continue make sure you have things like *ruby* and *bundler* installed. Anything missing should be notified to you.

There's some basic commands that Jekyll has and that you should know; <br> *You can try them but nothing will really happen untill you have appropiate content. Just learn what they are*.

{% highlight  command line %} jekyll serve {% endhighlight %}

*Serve* creates as local server that runs jekyll. What it does is picking up the content in the *_directories* (more on that briefly) and creates a *_site* directory that contains a static html page done from all the content you have set up. Said *_site* directory is read by the browser as a regular static html website.

{% highlight  command line %} jekyll build {% endhighlight %}

*Build* does half of what *serve* does. It simply builds the statitc html pages, as said before; the *_site* directory. With that you can pick up the contents and upload them to your server via ftp. but thats the long and borring way, and unfortunatelly the way my portfolio works at the time of writing this. This means that once you have the content you need. You can just build the site.

So those two are prtty muche the only commands you really need to know if you are building this site from scratch or thematising a existing website.

## _directories

Jekyll builds the pages from pieces you set up. different html files that are arranged toghether to create the different layouts your website might have.
<br>This directories you are gona use are 3: *_includes, _layouts and _posts.*  

### _includes

Includes have the following syntax

{% highlight liquid %}
	{% raw %}{% include example.html %}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}


> When using `{% raw %}{%this%}{% endraw %}` you are making use of a *tag* which can't resolve to text. <br>You use it for "functions" like *if* statements and others specific [liquid][a8] tasks. <br> The other markup used in jelkyll is `{% raw %}{{this}}{% endraw %}` which does resole to text, and is called *output*. (more on that later).

the *_includes* directory contains a series of *html* files that are snippets of a complete *html* page.

This means that we can go from this:
{%highlight html%}

<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">

  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>The HTML5 Herald</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/styles.css?v=1.0">
    <script src="js/scripts.js"></script>
  </head>

  <body>

    <header></header>

    <article>
      <p> content</p>
    </article>

    <footer></footer>

  </body>

</html>

{%endhighlight%}
To this:
{%highlight html%}
{%raw%}

<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">

  {% include head.html%} 

  <body>

    {% include header.html%}
  
    <article>
      {{content}}
    </article>

    {% include footer.html%}

  </body>

</html>
{% endraw %}
{%endhighlight%}

What has been done here is that three new files have been created with the code for `<head>`,` <header>` and `<footer>`

This allows us to only worry about one file when doing site-wide changes to this specific sections of the code. It's a problem when trying to do a small change and being forced to use *search and replace* and never being sure if everything works.

The other addidion is `{%raw%}{{content}}{%endraw%}` to the area where the main content goes. <br>This is where the *html* code goes when is generated by jekyll from the *.md* files we'll have in *_posts*.

### _layouts

Layouts are regular *html* files with the same estructure shown above. This basicly are different structures you want your site's pages to have. They are called from de *_posts*' content where the tag "*layout:*" is used.

---

### links that you either should check out or have been metioned in this post

* ma [website][a1]
* this [blog][a2]
* info about [Jekyll][a3]
* what is [Capistrano][a4]
* the amazing thing that [GitHub Pages][a5] is.
* I link to [WordPress](https://wordpress.com) if for some reason you want to use that reched thing.
* Go say hi to your new friend [MarkDown][a6]
* what the heck is [liquid][a7] and how it [works][a8].
* a [good guide to Jekyll](https://www.andrewmunsell.com/lesson/building-a-website-with-jekyll/) ($15) by Andrew Munsell. *Seems a great time saver*. 
* [post](http://hugogiraudel.com/2013/02/21/jekyll/) by Hugo Giraudel. He explains clearly the process & reasons to use Jekyll
* *very helpfull* [guides to set up a custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/) on GitHub Pages.
* GitHub [guide to Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/), use it if new to .md!
* kickass [guide](http://nicolashery.com/fast-mobile-friendly-website-with-jekyll/) that does a much better job than I. *One step above in skill ladder*

[a1]: http://graupuche.info
[a2]: http://blog.graupuche.info
[a3]: http://jekyllrb.com
[a4]: http://capistranorb.com
[a5]: https://pages.github.com
[a6]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[a7]: https://shopify.github.io/liquid/
[a8]: https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers